In this section of the course we will learn about the HTL elements that allow us to add media to our
web pages.
In this particular lesson we will learn how to add an image to a web page.
Here is an example page from an earlier lesson in the course.
Let's give ourselves a goal.
Let's imagine that we want to add an image to this page.
I have a jpeg or an image file on my desktop named life on the tracks and here's what it looks like
.
The first thing that I am going to do is move this file the jpeg of the image into the same folder as
where are each DML file lives.
So we can see that my index on H DML is in the same directory as the JPEG.
Now that we have selected an image to add to our page and we've made sure that it's in the correct directory
.
Let's hop over to our text editor.
Let's imagine that we want to include the image after this paragraph.
So we'll create a new element the code for image is I am g now with most other elements in HTML for
the sake of organization we are encouraged to include a closing tag but with the image element we do
not need this at all.
In fact the only thing that we need with an image is a few attributes.
The first attribute is source s r c.
This attribute lets the web browser know where to look to find the image file.
Now because we included the image in the same directory as our HTML file it's as simple as typing in
the name of the JPEG. Live on the tracks.
Dot J P. G.
Now if we save and be fresh our page in the web browser we can see that our image has been added to
the page.
However our task is not complete.
We still need to add another attribute named Allt stands for alternative text.
We want to include a text description of the image.
So if someone can visually see the page and there using screen reading software it can read them a description
of the image so we can say squirrel on train tracks.
Now if we save and refresh in our browser we won't see any difference.
But if for some reason the image fails to load certain web browser it will display the text.
Or like I mentioned before if someone's using a screen reading piece of software it will correctly read
that description.
In other words there is no reason to not include an alt attribute for your image.
It makes your web pages far more accessible.
So we have reviewed the all to attribute and we have reviewed the source attribute before we close out
this lesson.
There's one more thing that I want to discuss and that is keeping your image files organized so you
will remember that we included the j peg in the same folder as our h DML file.
In reality you will probably want to create a special images folder to keep things organized.
So let's move our JPEG into the images folder.
Once we have moved the file if we refresh our page obviously the image will not be able to load because
the web browser doesn't know where to look to find the image anymore so we need to update our code from
the source attribute our value needs to reflect that images folder.
It's as simple as typing the name of the folder and then including a forward slash.
So to review the forward slash is how we designate that the text leading up to it is referring to a
folder.
So for example we could take things a step further within this images folder.
We could create another folder named animals and then drag our image into that.
And then in our code we could say image is slash animals slash and then the name and the JPEG.
So if we refresh we can see that our image is loading once again.
So we now know how to drill a folder deeper relative from the H to a mail file.
We simply include a forward slash.
But what if we wanted to go in the opposite direction.
So you'll see on my desktop we've been working inside this learn.
H to him l folder and that's where our index dot HTML file lives.
But what if instead of drilling into a folder relative from this file.
What if we wanted to go up a folder.
So here's an image of a cat.
Cat dog egg.
And you can see that it leaves one folder up from our HVM file.
All to go in that direction.
Let's create another image as an example and you can see the in the source attribute.
We type dot dot forward slash and this will go up a folder and then we can simply type cat JPEG and
include a bit of descriptive text for the image cat.
So if we refresh we can see that our web page is now going up a folder relative from this file and then
grabbing the cat J pig file for the time being that's enough speaking about going up a folder or down
a folder.
The only way to become truly comfortable with this syntax is to practice it on your own so I encourage
you to set up a sample web page grab a few jpeg from somewhere on your computer and go ahead and experiment
by organizing them into folders and then practicing this syntax in our next lesson and we will learn
how to add an audio file to a page